TD learning is built on the idea
that the agent can use its own
estimate of the value function
to update its predictions.
We've seen TD learning
in the tabular case.
Today we will describe how it
works with function approximation.
By the end of this video you will be
able to understand the TD update for
function approximation, and
outline the semi-gradient TD algorithm for
value estimation.
Recall the gradient
Monte Carlo update equation.
It updates our current value estimate to
be closer to a sample of the return Gt,
but we can consider using other
targets instead of the return.
In fact, we can replace the return in this
update with any estimate of the value.
Let's call this estimate Ut.
If Ut is an unbiased estimate of the true
value then our function approximator will
converge to a local optimum under
the appropriate conditions.
This was the case for the return,
but we can also replace Ut
with a bootstrap target,
such as the one step TD target.
This is still an estimate of the return,
but in this case, the estimate is biased.
The TD target uses our
current value estimate,
which will likely not equal
the true value function.
Because of this we cannot guarantee this
algorithm will converge to a local minimum
of the value error.
The upside is that the TD target
often has lower variance than
the sample of the return.
This means TD will tend to
converge in fewer updates.
The TD update is not actually
a stochastic gradient descent update.
To see why we take the gradient of
the error with respect to the weights for
one sample.
Remember Ut is equal to the TD target.
Using the chain rule we get
this expanded expression for
the gradient of the squared error for
one sample.
But, wait a minute.
This doesn't look like the TD update.
These two expressions would only
be equal if the gradient of Ut=0.
This is not the case for TD.
In TD the target contains an estimate of
the value, which depends on the weights.
This means the gradient of
Ut is not 0 as shown here,
therefore TD is not performing gradient
descent updates on the squared error.
We call it a semi-gradient method.
Despite this, TD converges in
many of the cases we care about.
We will discuss TD's convergence
properties in an upcoming video.
Here is the pseudocode for
semi-gradient TD.
It's actually very similar to the TD
argument for the tabular setting.
This album does not have to wait until
the end of an episode to make updates.
TD performs an update on each step,
unlike radio Monte Carlo.
On each step of the episode the agents
selects an action A, in state S.
We use the resulting reward in next
state to compute the TD target, and
update the weights immediately.
We continue in this way until
we reach the terminal state,
which is defined to have value zero, then
we start a new episode, and that's it.
It's really not that
different from tabular TD.
That's it for today.
You should now understand
the semi-gradient TD algorithm.